50 Words or Less The Ravens-Commanders Regional Rivalry, Explained
Oct 12, 2024 at 09:00 AM
Ryan Mink
Editorial Director

A game that wasn't necessarily circled when the schedule was released has turned into a game that networks reportedly battled over and the hottest ticket in town.

There's a lot of excitement for Sunday's Ravens vs. Commanders game at M&T Bank Stadium.

Here are my thoughts on the game, all in 50 words or less:

The Ravens are riding a three-game winning streak and the Commanders are on a four-game heater. It's the NFL's two highest-scoring offenses. It's two of the most talented dual-threat quarterbacks in football, Lamar Jackson and Jayden Daniels. There's a local "rivalry" flavor. What's not to like about this matchup?
Speaking of the rivalry, I feel qualified to speak on this as a Maryland born and bred kid who went to the University of Maryland and now lives in a Montgomery County D.C. suburb. This isn't a rivalry. It's a battle for neighborhood bragging rights in a handful of counties.

I do expect the remade Commanders will bring an edge to this game though, looking to knock off the franchise that has ruled the region for a long time. Some Commanders acted like they won the Super Bowl last year when they ended the Ravens' 24-game preseason winning streak.
Ravens defenders always say they're happy they don't have to go against Jackson in a real game. They'll get the closest thing to it with Daniels. They certainly aren't clones, but Daniels' play style and the way the Commanders have schemed around him are similar. Practicing against Lamar does help.

The typical way to rattle a rookie quarterback is to blitz him. Heat him up. Daniels has a passer rating of 122.7 against the blitz this season compared to 96.5 without it. His two interceptions have both come when not facing a blitz. He's not your typical rookie.
Dean Pees will help Baltimore's defense be better. I believe it would go that direction regardless. The Ravens have faced a gauntlet of the NFL's top passers and catchers so far this year. Also, talent usually wins out and there's too much talent in this secondary to be this bad.

The Commanders' biggest challenge will be slowing down Derrick Henry. They have allowed the second-most yards per carry (5.1) in the league and haven't faced a running back in the same league as King Henry. Washington's nickel-heavy defense will be strained on its edges similar to Dallas and Buffalo.
Pundits and fans are amazed that the 30-year-old Henry is still running past defenders so often. When I asked him this week whether he expected his pairing with Jackson to be this good, Henry looked at me like I had two heads: "If I didn't, then I wouldn't be playing."

Which Ravens pass catcher will make the biggest impact Sunday? Zay Flowers leads the group, but it has truly become a pick-you-poison group beyond that. We're seeing sparks of the Rashod Bateman emergence, and it feels like any of the three tight ends can make opponents pay.
This is the second straight week that Jackson face off against a fellow Heisman Trophy winner at quarterback. There will be four Heisman Trophy winners in Sunday's game: Jackson, Daniels, Henry, and Commanders backup quarterback Marcus Mariota.