Around the AFC North Browns Sticking With Deshaun Watson As Offensive Struggles Reach Historic Levels
Oct 14, 2024 at 12:32 PM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

Cleveland Browns: Offense Has Reached Historic Low Point As Deshaun Watson Remains Starter
A 20-16 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles dropped the Browns (1-5) into sole possession of last place in the AFC North. However, it did not change Deshaun Watson's status as the starting quarterback.

Head Coach Kevin Stefanski gave a one-word answer when asked after the game if Watson would remain the starter.

"Yes," Stefanski said.

However, the Browns have become the first team in 10 years to score fewer than 20 points in each of their first six games.

Here are other lowlights for Cleveland's offense, via Bill Barnwell of espn.com:

The Browns average an NFL-worst 19.5 yards per possession.
Cleveland has punted on nearly 51% of its possessions, the highest rate in the league.
The Browns have converted 19.2% of their third downs, the lowest rate since the 2010 Chicago Bears.
Watson is being sacked on a league-high 12.4% of his dropbacks. He has been sacked 31 times, while no other quarterback has been sacked more than 20.
Watson has completed just 3 of 17 passes for 77 yards on deep attempts. Eleven of those 17 throws have been considered off-target attempts by ESPN's tracking.

Watson said the Browns' offensive struggles have worn on the team mentally. They had a chance to tie the Eagles on their final possession, but settled for a field goal, then never got the ball back as Philadelphia's offense milked away the game's final 3:54.

"Yeah, it's very frustrating," Watson said via Mark Kay Cabot of cleveland.com after the loss. "There've been penalties and stops and just things like that. And the one time we try to put ourselves in position to go win, we didn't do it."

The Browns host the Bengals in Week 7.

Pittsburgh Steelers: T.J. Watt Dominates After Turning 30 to End Two-Game Skid
Two days after celebrating his 30th birthday, six-time Pro Bowler T.J. Watt showed that he's aging well.

Watt forced two fumbles during Pittsburgh's 32-13 victory over the Las Vegas Raiders that broke a two-game losing streak and kept the Steelers (4-2) tied with the Ravens atop the division. One of Watt's forced fumbles stopped the Raiders near the goal line to end a potential touchdown drive. Watt's other forced fumble set up a Pittsburgh touchdown drive.

Watt was the NFL Defensive Player of the Year in 2021, and the outside linebacker is making a case to win the award again. Some pundits believe Watt deserves MVP consideration.

Asked about turning 30, Watt said his body feels terrific.

"I honestly feel great," Watt said via Evan Washburn of CBS Sports. "I don't feel any aging in my body at all right now.

"We didn't have much splash these last two weeks. To be able to leave here with a win is huge. You get chipped … you're not always able to affect the pass as much as I want to. So I'm trying to do it in the run game, other ways I'm able to create turnovers for the defense."

Cincinnati Bengals: Joe Burrow Hopes Much-Needed Win Ignites a Playoff Push
After giving up 41 points to the Ravens in Week 6, the Bengals (2-4) held the New York Giants to one touchdown in a much-needed 17-7 victory.

Joe Burrow had a career-long 47-yard touchdown run, reaching a top speed of 19.6 miles per hour, which was the fastest play of his career, according to NextGenStats.

"I saw an opening, saw it was man coverage," Burrow said via Tom Canavan of the Associated Press. "I was able to squeak through there and find the end zone."

Burrow was happy to see the defense shine on a night when the offense wasn't at its best. Cincinnati's difficult start to the season hasn't made Burrow give up his playoff hopes. He hopes beating the Giants will be the catalyst for Cincinnati to save its season.

"We really needed it," Burrow said "I don't want to say we would have been out of it if we lost, but we'd be scratching and clawing for the rest of the year. We still really are, but it was good to get a win. Great to see our defense step up like that. They've taken some heat the last couple of weeks. They played awesome tonight."



