Everything You Need to Know Ravens vs. Commanders
Oct 13, 2024 at 12:44 PM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

Riding a three-game winning streak, the Ravens (3-2) host the Washington Commanders (4-1), who have won four straight games, in this "Battle of the Beltways."

Basics
Kickoff: Sunday, 1 p.m., M&T Bank Stadium

TV: CBS, WJZ Ch. 13 (Baltimore), WUSA Ch. 9 (Washington), and more. CBS crew Jim Nantz (play-by-play), Tony Romo (analyst), Tracy Wolfson (sideline)

Radio: WBAL (101.5 FM/1090 AM), 98 Rock (97.9 FM), SiriusXM Radio Ch. 85 or 225, ESPN Radio. Ravens crew: Gerry Sandusky (play-by-play), Rod Woodson (analyst). ESPN Radio: Steve Levy (play-by-play), Sal Paolantonio (analyst)

History
The Ravens have a 4-3 edge in the all-time series. This is Washington's first regular season visit to Baltimore since 2016.

The teams last met in 2020 when the Ravens won a 31-17 decision at Washington during the COVID-19 pandemic. Baltimore never trailed, taking a 14-0 lead in the second quarter on a 50-yard touchdown run by Lamar Jackson. Wide receiver Terry McLaurin was the main offensive threat for Washington with 10 catches for 118 yards.

Stakes
After an 0-2 start, the Ravens will keep at least a share of first place in the AFC North with a victory. Jackson has an opportunity to improve his near-perfect career record against the NFC as a starter (21-1). Washington can win five straight games for the first time since 2001 and would maintain sole possession of first place in the NFC East with a win.

Key Storylines
Can the Ravens maintain their mastery over rookie quarterbacks?

The Ravens are 18-2 at home against rookie quarterbacks under Head Coach John Harbaugh, including the postseason, and many of those games have not been close. However, Jayden Daniels is no ordinary rookie. Among starters who have played all five games, only Joe Burrow, Baker Mayfield, and Jackson have a higher quarterback rating than Daniels (106.3). He's not playing like a rookie or conducting himself like one, and Daniels' confidence has rubbed off on the entire organization. The Commanders have averaged 38 points in their last three games under new Offensive Coordinator Kliff Kingsbury, and Baltimore will need a strong defensive effort to cool off Washington's attack.

Will the Ravens' pass defense solve its issues?

Despite beating the Bengals, Week 5 wasn't good for Baltimore's pass defense, which ranks 31st in the league and surrendered five touchdown passes to Burrow. Rashee Rice, Davante Adams, and Ja'Marr Chase have all gone over 100 yards receiving against the Ravens. McLaurin is another big-time receiver who's coming off a 112-yard game against the Cleveland Browns. To keep McLlaurin in check, Baltimore's secondary will have to cover, tackle, and communicate better than it did in Cincinnati.

Does Washington have an answer for Derrick Henry?

Henry has averaged 147.3 rushing yards per game during the Ravens' three-game winning streak, compared to 65 yards when they started 0-2. While the passing attack also flourished against Cincinnati, Baltimore's league-leading rushing attack sets a strong foundation for the offense and can impose its will on opponents. Henry is running with force, and he's getting solid blocking from teammates looking to spring him. The Commanders are tied for second to last in the league in rushing yards allowed per carry (5.1 yards) and Henry is the best back they've faced all season.

Matchups to Watch in Ravens vs. Commanders
Matt Ryan
Editorial Intern

Players to Watch
CB Brandon Stephens

Stephens has battled some of the NFL's best receivers this season, and he'll get another test dealing with McLaurin when they're matched up. Daniels is an excellent deep ball thrower and has not shied away from taking shots downfield.

LT Ronnie Stanley

Stanley is playing at a high level protecting the blind side for Jackson, who has only been sacked twice over the last three games. A strong performance from Stanley could set the table for another huge day for the rushing attack and Jackson.

ILB Roquan Smith

The Commanders lead the NFL with 13 rushing touchdowns and Daniels becomes more of a running threat when Washington reaches the red zone. Smith's presence as a sideline-to-sideline defender in the middle of the field will be important against Washington's versatile offense.
