Know the Foe Washington Commanders
Oct 13, 2024 at 04:50 AM
Matt Ryan
Editorial Intern

For the first time since 2008, the Washington Commanders are 4-1, setting up a showdown in Baltimore Sunday. The game has garnered plenty of buzz with standout rookie quarterback Jayden Daniels facing two-time MVP Lamar Jackson.

Here's what to know about the Commanders:

Jayden Daniels' Historic Start
Through five weeks, Daniels is the runaway favorite for Offensive Rookie of the Year and even getting MVP recognition as the Commanders have won four in a row and are atop the NFC East.

Since Kirk Cousins left in 2018, Washington has had a revolving door at quarterback, starting 13 different signal callers, but it looks like Daniels could be the guy. The No. 2-overall pick is off to a historic start, becoming the first player to pass for 1,000+ yards and run for 250+ yards in their first five games.

Daniels, who won the Heisman trophy at LSU last year, has been compared to Jackson as a dual-threat quarterback, but he isn’t interested in any player comps.

"I don't like when people try to compare me to Lamar and vice-versa. We're two different players," Daniels said. "At the end of the day, I want to be known as Jayden Daniels and not the next such and such."

Jackson has pushed back on any comparisons during his career and certainly supports Daniels' thinking.

"He is his own player, [and] he's his own man, at the end of the day," Jackson said. "We're just trying to make a name for ourselves, not anyone else, so I agree with that – definitely."

New Era in DC
It's a new time in Washington as the franchise has had a major makeover the last 18 months.

Last season was the first year with new owner Josh Harris, who bought the team from Daniel Snyder, and this is the first season with Daniels and Head Coach Dan Quinn. This offseason, Washington added a ton of veterans, including future Hall-of-Fame linebacker Bobby Wagner and former Pro Bowlers in tight end Zach Ertz and running back Austin Ekeler.

It's certainly a new look Washington team from the last "Battle of the Beltways" in 2020.

Strong Offense, OK Defense
The Ravens' offense is No. 2 in the NFL in scoring, trailing only the Commanders, who are averaging 31 points per game. Washington's offense has been uber-efficient this season, and even went two consecutive weeks without punting.

Daniels is a huge reason why Washington's offense has been so potent, but so is first-year Offensive Coordinator Kliff Kingsbury, who has helped Washington deliver a healthy balance of run and pass. After Bengals cornerback Cam Taylor-Britt called Washington's scheme a "nice college offense," Daniels and the Commanders hit them with multiple big plays and robust passing attack.

A key matchup this week will be Baltimore's No. 1 rush defense against Washington's No. 2 run offense led by Daniels and running back Brian Robinson Jr. The Ravens also must account for Daniels' arm, especially with his strong deep-ball connection with wide receiver Terry McLaurin.

On the other side of the ball, Washington's defense started the season slowly but has picked up in recent weeks and is now ranked 20th, giving up 23 points per game. The Commanders' run defense is a weak point, surrendering 130 yards per game, so that could be a spot for Baltimore's No. 1-ranked run game to attack.

Players to Watch
WR Terry McLaurin

For the first time in his career, McLaurin has a reliable quarterback throwing him the ball. He has 23 catches for 303 yards this season, and had the Commanders' biggest play of the year, catching a 27-yard touchdown late in the fourth quarter to seal their win in Cincinnati.

DT Jonathan Allen

Allen is a force in the middle for Washington and made back-to-back Pro Bowls in 2021 and 2022. He has two sacks this season but has 12 pressures, according to Pro Football Focus. He'll play a big role as the Commanders try to slow Baltimore's elite run game.

RB Brian Robinson Jr.

In his third season, Robinson is off to his best start with 325 rushing yards and five touchdowns. Robinson is averaging 4.5 yards per carry but is also a factor in the pass game with 11 targets this season.
