Lamar Jackson Wins AFC Offensive Player of the Week After Historic Touchdown
Oct 09, 2024 at 12:00 PM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

Lamar Jackson doesn't focus on winning individual honors, but accolades keep coming his way.

Jackson has been named AFC Offensive Player of the Week for the 11th time in his career, after a sparkling performance in the Ravens' 41-38 overtime victory against the Cincinnati Bengals.

He threw for a season-high 348 yards and four touchdowns, leading Baltimore to a come-from-behind victory after trailing by 10 points twice in the fourth quarter.

There have been many signature moments in Jackson's career, but the two-time MVP added another jaw-dropping play to his collection in Week 5.

After bobbling a snap from center in the fourth quarter, Jackson scrambled backwards to buy more time and stiff-armed 265-pound defensive end Sam Hubbard twice to escape. Jackson kept fading towards the sideline and launched a leaping throw from the 20-yard line into the end zone while being hit by Bengals linebacker Jermaine Pratt.

Isaiah Likely leapt between three Bengals defenders, including former Ravens safety Geno Stone, to make a spectacular touchdown catch that pulled Baltimore to within three points.

Hubbard dropped to his knees in disbelief after the play, having a hard time processing what he had just witnessed. He wasn't alone.

"I just thought it was an incredible, fabulous play that will go down in history," Head Coach John Harbaugh said. "We'll be watching that play for years to come on NFL films." 

Having the athleticism and awareness to make such a play is part of what makes Jackson so special. During Baltimore's current three-game winning streak, he has thrown for seven touchdowns with no interceptions.

The Ravens needed everything they got from Jackson to win a shootout with the Bengals, who were led by Joe Burrow's five touchdown passes. After an 0-2 start, the Ravens have righted themselves and Jackson is on the path to another potential MVP season.

Asked about the touchdown pass to Likely, Jackson downplayed where it ranked among his greatest plays saying, "It's cool. I don't know. It's cool."

However, Derrick Henry knows that with Jackson, the potential for a great play is always there.

"That was like [a] third MVP level for [Lamar Jackson]," Henry said. "He's the best player in the league; he's the G.O.A.T for a reason." 

For the first time since 2019 (Jackson in Weeks 9 & 10), the Ravens won AFC Offensive Player of the Week in back-to-back weeks. Henry earned the honor in Week 4 after running for 199 yards and scoring two touchdowns.