Mark Andrews Breaks Out With First Touchdown
Oct 13, 2024 at 06:10 PM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

Mark Andrews found the end zone and a place in Ravens history Sunday afternoon versus the Commanders.

With his 41st career touchdown reception, Andrews tied former Ravens tight end Todd Heap for the most in franchise history.

The record-tying touchdown came late in the second quarter on a 13-yard pass from Lamar Jackson that put Baltimore ahead, 17-10, before intermission.

"It feels great," Andrew said of breaking the record. "When you get something like that you should credit your teammates. I'm blessed and fortunate to have a quarterback like that and teammates that surround me. We just want to continue to keep things going, to be patient, and good things will happen."

It was a typical Jackson-Andrews connection on third down, with Andrews adeptly finding an open space in the end zone and Jackson spotting one of his favorite red zone targets. Jackson lofted the ball high where only Andrews could reach it, and he climbed the ladder to make the grab.

More than the history books, Andrews relished getting into the end zone for the first time this season after a slow start to the year.

Andrews nearly tied the record last week in Cincinnati, but Jackson's pass forced Andrews to dive for the catch at the 2-yard line. He was happy to repay his tight end against the Commanders.

"It was dope. Last week he was supposed to score. I threw a bad ball," Jackson said. "... I'm like, 'Bro I got to get you in the end zone next week.' I was ticked off with myself. He was mad at me, too. But he didn't say nothing about it, he's like, 'We good.' But he told me, 'I was mad at you at first.' I was like, 'Bro, I was mad at my damn self.' He ain't going to be madder than me. It was dope to get him in the end zone."

Sunday's score was Andrews' first since Week 7 of last season. Since then, he has battled back from leg injury and had some quiet weeks, but he's starting to come on this season. He knows it's all part of the process.

"Sometimes you're working hard, and things just don't go that way, but like I said, it's just patience," Andrews said. "We are so versatile, and guys are going to get their touches on the ball and good things will happen. That's what happened today."