Marlon Humphrey Active, Commanders' Top Running Back Is Out
Oct 13, 2024 at 11:54 AM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

Starting cornerback Marlon Humphrey (ankle) is active for Week 6 against the Washington Commanders after being limited in practice Thursday and Friday.

Humphrey had a key interception in Baltimore's Week 5 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals and is a leader in the secondary. The Ravens' defense will be tasked with slowing down the Commanders' potent passing attack led by rookie quarterback Jayden Daniels, who has completed 77.1% of his passes. Humphrey, a three-time Pro Bowler who plays both outside and in the slot, will be one of several corners defending Washington wide receiver Terry McLaurin, one of the NFL's top deep threats.

Ravens rookie safety Beau Brade is active and in position to make his NFL debut. The former Maryland star who played at River Hill High School made the 53-man roster as an undrafted free agent. Brade could assume a role on special teams with linebacker and key special teams player Malik Harrison (groin) ruled out on Friday.

Left guard Andrew Vorhees (ankle) is active after missing the previous two games. Vorhees practiced all week, and it remains to be seen if he will return to the lineup after starting the first three games. Patrick Mekari was the starter at left guard in weeks four & five, with rookie Roger Rosengarten making his first two starts at right tackle.

Left tackle Ronnie Stanley (toe) is active after being listed as questionable. Stanley didn't practice on Wednesday and was limited on Thursday and Friday.

Ravens returner/wide receiver Deonte Harty (knee) is active and will return to the action after a one-game absence. Harty was a full participant in Friday's practice.

Fifth round running back Rasheen Ali will make his NFL debut playing behind Derrick Henry and Justice Hill. Ali was singed to the active roster on Saturday after starting the season on injured reserve with a neck injury.

Ravens defensive tackle Broderick Washington (knee) was ruled out Friday. Also inactive for the Ravens are offensive lineman Sala Aumavae-Laulu, outside linebacker Adisa Isaac, center Nick Samac, and wide receiver Devontez Walker.

For Washington, running back Brian Robinson (knee), who leads the Commanders in rushing yards (325) and touchdowns (five), was ruled out on Saturday. Austin Ekeler and Jeremy McNichols will likely handle the ball carrying duties for Washington.

Also inactive for the Commanders are linebacker Jordan Magee (knee), cornerback Emmanuel Forbes, quarterback Jeff Driskel, safety Tyler Owens, linebacker Dominique Hampton, defensive end Jamin Davis and guard Chris Paul.