News & Notes John Harbaugh on Pass Defense 'We're Just Way Better Than That'
Oct 07, 2024 at 05:20 PM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

The Ravens are ranked 31st in the NFL in pass defense, and that's not OK with them. Neither is giving up 392 yards passing and five touchdowns to Joe Burrow in Week 5.

Head Coach John Harbaugh tipped his hat to the Cincinnati Bengals' passing attack after Baltimore escaped with a 41-38 overtime win Sunday. However, Harbaugh knows the Ravens must improve defending the pass if they are to achieve their goal of winning a Super Bowl.

"[Burrow] had pressure in his face numerous times, the pocket was getting pushed, guys were coming at him, he stood in there and made some really great throws, like on-the-money throws off his back foot," Harbaugh said. "We had tight coverage where they made the catches. That's football.

"But I also believe that we compounded the yardage because we didn't play things as well as we need to play them. Probably five or six plays in the passing game from a coverage standpoint that we're just way better than that. We're way better than to play some of those things the way we played them. To win our conference, to win our division, to win a game against the teams we're going to play … we've got to be on point every single play with what we're doing."

Everyone in the Ravens' secondary had plays they'd like to have back. However, Harbaugh was asked specifically about Marcus Williams, who was one of several Ravens that Ja'Marr Chase blew past on a short wide receiver screen that became a 70-yard touchdown.

Williams is known for his range and ball hawking skills, but he has just one interception over his last 16 games, granted he was dealing with an injury last season. In his first season with the Ravens in 2022, Williams had four interceptions despite playing just 10 games. This season, Williams has 20 tackles in five games with two passes defended and no interceptions.

"Marcus is working hard, he's doing a good job, he's making a lot of good tackles, a lot of physical play in there," Harbaugh said. "I think he's on the verge of really breaking out. Some balls are going to come his way. He's moving really well. I fully expect him to come up with some big plays for us very soon."

Ravens Leaning Towards Sticking With Current Offensive Line
The Ravens started Patrick Mekari at left guard and rookie Roger Rosengarten at right tackle for the second straight week with left guard Andrew Vorhees (ankle) inactive. Vorhees may be healthy enough to play Week 6 against the Washington Commanders, but the Ravens may stick with the current offensive line group that has clicked.

"Andrew will come back, maybe this week," Harbaugh said. "Three weeks with a high-ankle [sprain] — you can't believe how hard he's working at it. It's amazing how tough he is.

"It will be good to have him back, but an object in motion tends to stay in motion. So, if we're doing well, we're probably going to try to keep that momentum going. But I think the offensive line is doing a good job. We'll just have to see where we're at through the week." 

Over the past two weeks, the Ravens have surrendered just two sacks and run for 446 yards.

Injury Updates on Deonte Harty, Marlon Humphrey
Harbaugh gave an injury update on returner/receiver Deonte Harty (knee), who practiced fully on Friday but was inactive for Sunday's game.

"It just kind of snuck up on us there, but that stuff happens in this league," Harbaugh said. "Again, we'll hope for the best (this week)." 

Cornerback Marlon Humphrey was wearing a walking boot in the locker room Sunday after making his interception late in the fourth quarter that set up Justin Tucker's 56-yard game-tying field goal. Humphrey played 91% of the defensive snaps and Harbaugh said the Ravens escaped the game in relatively good health.

"These are physical, tough games, [and] you're on the turf and all that, so ... I just don't want to make any promises, but I think we're in good shape."

Tylan Wallace Bounces Back After Miscue
A special teams mistake cost the Ravens a safety against Cincinnati when Tylan Wallace failed to field a punt that the Bengals downed at the 2-yard line. Derrick Henry was tackled in the end zone on the next play, but Wallace redeemed himself with two clutch catches for 31 yards in the fourth quarter.

Harbaugh admired the way Wallace responded to the mistake.

"That (punt) has got to be caught, he knows that," Harbaugh said. "You've just got to get over there, get squared up it on, fair catch it if you have to, just catch it.

"But what I'm impressed with is how he bounces back. Two huge catches in the fourth quarter that we don't win the game without, and the block to spring the game-winning run. Sometimes you have a bad play. He knows it put us in a bad spot. But he didn't get down about it, he didn't sit on the bench, pout about it at all. He looks you right in the eye and says, 'OK, I'm still here. I'm going to find a way to make it up.' And he did."

