News & Notes Kyle Hamilton Sends a Strong Message About Ravens Defense
Oct 09, 2024 at 06:36 PM

All-Pro safety Kyle Hamilton wants results, not just words, when it comes to Baltimore's pass defense.

The Ravens are ranked next-to-last in the NFL against the pass, surrendering 280.2 yards per game through the air. Giving up 392 yards and five touchdown passes to Joe Burrow in Week 5 was proof to Hamilton that Baltimore's defense is not nearly where it needs to be.

In Week 6, Baltimore will face another red-hot quarterback in Jayden Daniels of the Washington Commanders who has led them to four straight wins. Washington is averaging 38.0 points in its last three games and has one of the league's most dangerous deep threats in Terry McLaurin.

Simply put, Hamilton said it's time for the pass defense, led by the secondary, to step up.

"I think most of our problems is nothing structural, it's fundamental stuff," Hamilton said. "We've got to tackle, get off blocks, we've got to communicate. We've been saying this for five weeks now. It's time to start actually doing it, not coming up here and just saying it.

"It's up to us on the back end to get that fixed and go out and play a complete game."

A superb performance by AFC Offensive Player of the Week Lamar Jackson and 41 points from the offense bailed out Baltimore's defense in Week 5, but Hamilton was disappointed with how his unit played.

"We gave up 38 points and the offense did everything in their power to get us to win that game," Hamilton said. "Obviously, Marlon [Humphrey] had a big pick at the end, but other than that I don't really know how much the defense did for us to win.

"At least as a secondary, being as blunt as possible, we've kind of plateaued in our getting better throughout the season. We've had good weeks with Buffalo and we've had bad weeks like this week. It's up to us to fix that."

Cornerback Brandon Stephens said the secondary is leaving no stone unturned during film study and meetings this week.

"We've been detailing the hell out of our coverages, just really taking a closer look," Stephens said. "That's all we can do, try to figure out how do we become better from last week. Obviously, that wasn't our best performance. We got the win, but we've still got to look in the mirror."

Lamar Jackson Dishes on Video of Bengals Fan Talking Trash to Him at Dinner
A video of a woman talking trash to Lamar Jackson at dinner Saturday night in Cincinnati went viral on social media when Zay Flowers posted it after Sunday's win.

Jackson got the last laugh after the Ravens' 41-38 victory in overtime, although he didn't appreciate the woman interrupting his dinner with Flowers and Eddie Jackson.

"We were just sitting down," Jackson said. "It was supposed to be private for us. … We were just eating. The guy who owned the restaurant just kept letting people.

"I don't know this lady. She came in, 'We're going to kick your [butt].' I'm like, I got mad. She's going to be the reason we're going to end up winning. I wonder how she felt after that. She probably seen it, one of her grandsons or something probably showed it to her. Just be a fan next time. Just let us play. Let the guys do the talking."

Derrick Henry Honored to Get Shoutout From Emmitt Smith
After surpassing 10,000 yards rushing for his career in Week 5, Derrick Henry said he was honored to watch a congratulatory video from Emmitt Smith, the NFL's all-time leading rusher.

Smith is a native of Florida like Henry and also wore No. 22.

"Emmitt [Smith] is just a legend; he's like the G.O.A.T of Florida," Henry said. "All of the kids who play running back look up to Emmitt – he's like Michael Jordan to us. That was very cool, and I appreciate him taking out his time to make that video."

Lamar Jackson Likes His Weapons
Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Davante Adams has reportedly requested a trade, and speculation about his next destination continues. According to Tashan Reed of The Athletic, Baltimore will not be Adams' landing spot.

Jackson didn't comment specifically on Adams, but made it clear he already likes Baltimore's weapons.

"I believe we're in a groove right now, just taking strides in the right places," Jackson said. "We've just got to keep going, keep our heads down and focus on the task at hand.

"My guys are doing a great job. Receivers, tight ends, running backs, fullbacks. Our guys are doing it all right now and we're winning games. That's all that matters."