News & Notes Ravens' Heavy Personnel Puts Opponents in a Bind
Oct 11, 2024 at 04:00 PM
Clifton Brown
BaltimoreRavens.com Staff Writer

When the Ravens go to their big offensive packages, the Washington Commanders could face huge problems.

Baltimore has shown it can run or pass effectively with Derrick Henry, Pro Bowl fullback Pat Ricard, and multiple tight ends on the field together. An example was Charlie Kolar's 55-yard catch-and-run from Lamar Jackson against the Cincinnati Bengals in Week 5. Henry was in the backfield with Jackson in shotgun formation, with Ricard, Kolar, and Isaiah Likely on the right side of the line scrimmage.

But instead of running Henry to the right side, the Ravens sent Likely in motion to the left. When the ball was snapped, Nelson Agholor and Likely ran vertical routes, Ricard flared out to the right, and the Bengals left Kolar running free down the seam. Jackson hit Kolar in stride, and he almost scored before he was forced out of bounds at the 5-yard line.

When the Commanders see Ricard on the field with two tight ends Sunday, they can't be certain if the Baltimore will go to its power game or passing game. The Ravens lead the NFL in total yards, and Ricard thinks the versatility they have with their heavy packages is a key to their success.

"This year we probably have the best heaviest back in football along with the tight ends, who can block but also run all the routes, and I think it just causes a lot of problems for teams," Ricard said. It's like, 'How do you play?' I think it's a good changeup from our other players who are all very fast and skillful so it's like a defense has to cover it all.

"If they think we're going to run it and they load the box, then we can either try to run a run a play that will work against how they're loading the box or just kind of spread it out and pass the ball or play action pass."

The Ravens' "12" personnel package featuring one running back and two tight ends has been its most popular at 31.4% and its most successful among any formation it has used more than 4% of the time.

Roger Rosengarten Is Settling in as a Starter
After two straight games as the starting right tackle, rookie Roger Rosengarten is playing as if he intends to stay in that role.

Rosengarten has played every offensive snap the past two games, except for nine snaps he missed in Cincinnati while dealing with an ankle injury. The more Rosengarten plays, the more comfortable he looks.

"I feel great," Rosengarten said. "I think everything comes with the process. Transitioning from college to the NFL is going to be going through hardships. But for me it was just trusting the process and trusting everything and I'm here for a reason. I think it's starting to settle in with me now."

Rosengarten said he gained confidence in his first start against the Bills, when Henry busted through the right side of the line for an 87-yard touchdown run on the game's first play. Rosengarten threw one of the key blocks that sprung Henry.

"Roger is an intelligent football player. He's tough, and he'll battle and strain. So, those things are always a good starting block of any player – when they've got those things, it gives you a chance," Offensive Coordinator Todd Monken said Thursday.

"Like any player, they're not going to be perfect, but that's what you like about Roger. Football is important to him; he likes to play. He's frustrated when it isn't the way you want it to look, but that's what you want out of a player."

Andrew Vorhees (ankle) practiced fully all week, but Head Coach John Harbaugh has indicated that he could stick with the current offensive line formation with Rosengarten emerging at right tackle and Patrick Mekari adapting well at left guard.

Rasheen Ali Moves Closer to Possible Action
Fifth-round running back Rasheen Ali has been on injured reserve (neck) all season, but he returned to practice Oct. 3 and has practiced this entire week.

Running back Chris Collier has reached the maximum three practice squad elevations for game days, and Harbaugh did not rule out Ali being active for Week 6.

"It's definitely a possibility," Harbaugh said. "He's practiced [in] full, so we'll see where we go with that. We have a plan, and it'll be obviously announced when we get to Saturday with the reporting of the elevations and all of that."

Derrick Henry's Shoes Sent to Hall of Fame
Derrick Henry will be in the Pro Football Hall of Fame one day, but a pair of his shoes have already made it.

After Henry surpassed 10,000 yards rushing in his career and scored his 100th career touchdown in Week 5 against the Cincinnati Bengals, Henry's shoes were sent to Canton. He's the first player to reach 10,000 yards since Marshawn Lynch in 2017, and just the 32nd player in history to reach that mark.


