Only One NFL Receiver Graded Higher Than Zay Flowers Sunday
Oct 14, 2024 at 12:27 PM
Ryan Mink
Editorial Director

The Pro Football Focus (PFF) grades and snap counts are in from the Ravens' 30-23 win over the Washington Commanders.

Here's what stood out:

Zay Flowers looked every bit the part of a true No. 1 receiver. His offensive grade of 90.2 was the second-highest grade of any wide receiver in the league, only barely trailing the Philadelphia Eagles' A.J. Brown (91.3). Flowers' career-high 132 receiving yards were the most in the league Sunday and he caught all nine targets (all in the first half). Brown caught six of nine targets for 117 yards and a touchdown. Flowers' grade was the highest of his young career.

Defensive tackle Travis Jones was the Ravens' highest-graded defensive player at 83.7. Jones had four tackles, his first sack of 2024, and another two tackles for loss. He was a big reason why Baltimore held the Commanders' No. 2-ranked rushing attack entering the game to just 2.9 yards per carry.
Derrick Henry carried the load at running back, playing a season-high 42 snaps and getting 24 carries. After being out-snapped by Justice Hill last week, Henry had 43 snaps to Hill's 26 against the Commanders.

Although Isaiah Likely continued to lead the Ravens' tight ends in snaps (46), Mark Andrews saw half of the offensive action (34 snaps) and logged the offense's second-highest grade (85.8). Andrews had three catches for 66 yards and a touchdown and has stacked back-to-back strong games after a slow start.

Yannick Ngakoue (13 snaps) played one more snap than third-year outside linebacker David Ojabo. Ngakoue got his first sack as a reunited Raven, taking down Jayden Daniels with a nice bend move off the edge.

Cornerback Marlon Humphrey had his best game of the season, according to PFF, with a grade of 80.6, including 84.9 in coverage. He surrendered four catches on five targets, but only for 37 yards. Humphrey led the Ravens with nine tackles, including one for loss, and had one pass deflection.
Nate Wiggins' snap counts have been up and down. After playing 31% of the snaps in Cincinnati last week, he played 73% against the Commanders. Wiggins had a PFF coverage grade of 42.5, as he was credited with allowing five catches on eight targets for 71 yards. He was also flagged for defensive pass interference once.
Linebacker Roquan Smith had a strong tackling grade, as he brought the physicality as always, but his coverage grade of 34.9 was the lowest on the team. PFF credited Smith with giving up four catches for 62 yards on five targets.