Pundit Picks Majority Pick Ravens to Beat Commanders
Oct 11, 2024 at 09:19 AM
Kevin Eck
Writer

ESPN
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Stephania Bell	ravens

Matt Bowen	ravens

Mike Clay	ravens

Jeremy Fowler	ravens

Dan Graziano	commanders

Kalyn Kahler	commanders

Kimberly A. Martin	ravens

Eric Moody	ravens

Jason Reid	ravens

Lindsey Thiry	commanders

Seth Wickersham	ravens

BALTIMORE SUN
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Childs Walker	ravens

Ravens 34, Commanders 24 “The Commanders, with one of the league’s weaker defenses, might have to pick their poison between Lamar Jackson and Derrick Henry running and Jackson looking over the top as he did in Cincinnati. Washington’s potent offense won’t be silenced, but it won’t keep up with Jackson and Henry. This is a significant step up for the Commanders, and it will show in the end.”
Brian Wacker	ravens

Ravens 27, Commanders 23 “Baltimore’s defense is also perhaps the most talented that Washington has seen so far, and safety Kyle Hamilton, inside linebacker Roquan Smith and defensive tackles Nnamdi Madubuike and Travis Jones will make enough plays to force Washington into some mistakes.”
C.J. Doon	commanders

Commanders 31, Ravens 28 “Baltimore felt vulnerable enough on defense to bring in longtime assistant Dean Pees this week, and it could take a little more time to sort out the problems in the secondary. Jayden Daniels frustrates the Ravens’ pass rush and makes enough big plays to keep Washington within striking distance before leading a late drive for the game-winning field goal.”
Tim Schwartz	commanders

Commanders 34, Ravens 30 “Roquan Smith is right: Daniels hasn’t seen a defense like the Ravens’, but Smith hasn’t seen a quarterback like Daniels either. And the only quarterback playing better than the rookie is … Lamar Jackson. Expect some superb quarterback play Sunday, so sit back and enjoy the shootout.”
Bennett Conlin	ravens

Ravens 33, Commanders 27 “Baltimore is the more complete team, with the Commanders having issues defending the pass. Baker Mayfield and Joe Burrow combined to throw for more than 600 yards and seven touchdowns in their respective matchups with Washington. The Commanders are a legitimate threat to win the NFC East, but the Ravens are a Super Bowl contender. There’s still a gap between these franchises, but it’s shrinking.”
USA TODAY
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Jarrett Bell	ravens

Ravens 31, Commanders 24
Chris Bumbaca	ravens

Ravens 42, Commanders 34
Nate Davis	ravens

Ravens 35, Commanders 30
Tyler Dragon	ravens

Ravens 28, Commanders 23
Mike Middlehurst-Schwartz	ravens

Ravens 38, Commanders 35
Lorenzo Reyes	ravens

Ravens 33, Commanders 30
NFL.com
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Ali Bhanpuri	ravens

Ravens 28, Commanders 24
Brooke Cerosimo	ravens

Ravens 33, Commanders 28
Dan Parr	ravens

Ravens 30, Commanders 24
Gennaro Filice	ravens

Ravens 27, Commanders 19 “The Ravens lead the NFL in rushing offense (211.2 ypg) and rushing defense (60.4 ypg). The Commanders have proven quite capable of pounding the rock, ranking second at 178.4 ground yards per game, but can they stop a pounding? The early returns aren't promising, with Head Coach Dan Quinn's defense yielding 5.1 yards per carry, the second-worst mark in the league. To be fair, some advanced statistics are more favorable to Washington's run D, but I still don't trust this unit to slow down the prolific pairing of Lamar and Derrick Henry.”
Tom Blair	ravens

Ravens 27, Commanders 25
NFL NETWORK
Pundit	Projected Winner	Commentary
Adam Rank	ravens

Ravens 33, Commanders 28
Colleen Wolfe	ravens

Ravens 36, Commanders 30, OT
Marcas Grant	ravens

Ravens 34, Commanders 28
Maurice Jones-Drew	ravens

Ravens 27, Commanders 24
Daniel Jeremiah	ravens

Ravens 28, Commanders 24
Nick Shook	ravens

Ravens 27, Commanders 24
Kevin Patra	ravens

Ravens 33, Commanders 30
Grant Gordon	commanders

Commanders 29, Ravens 28
Eric Edholm	ravens

Ravens 30, Commanders 23
SPORTING NEWS
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Vinnie Iyer	ravens

Ravens 31, Commanders 27 “This is the best Battle of the Beltway ever with Heisman-winning, dual-threat MVP candidate Jayden Daniels facing off with Heisman-winning dual-threat two-time MVP Lamar Jackson. The defenses have started to show plenty of holes, meaning the offensive fireworks of chunk runs and big pass plays will not disappoint. Jackson's experience and help from Derrick Henry give him a slight edge over Daniels, who is still on the road despite a short local trip.”
CBS SPORTS
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Pete Prisco	ravens

Ravens 31, Commanders 29 “This is the big game of the week, featuring a surprise Commanders team against a Ravens team that is one of the best in the league. This is a proving game for Jayden Daniels and the Commanders. Baltimore has issues on defense that show up each week. Daniels will play well and keep his team in it, but he won't be able to outplay Lamar Jackson. Ravens will win a close one.”
Will Brinson	commanders

Jared Dubin	ravens

Ryan Wilson	ravens

John Breech	ravens

Ravens 34, Commanders 31 “If the Ravens are able to run the ball, that will allow them to control the clock, which will keep Daniels off the field, which would be another good thing for Baltimore, because when Daniels is on the field, no one can stop him. Through five weeks, Daniels has been one of the most explosive rookies in NFL history. With 1,135 passing yards and 300 rushing yards, he's the first player in NFL history to have at least 1,000 passing yards and 250 rushing yards through his first five career games. That being said, I can't pick against the Ravens and that's mostly because Lamar Jackson never loses to NFC teams. Over the course of his career, he's 21-1 against the NFC, a record that includes nine straight wins.”
Tyler Sullivan	ravens

Dave Richard	ravens

Jamey Eisenberg	ravens

PRO FOOTBALL TALK
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Mike Florio	ravens

Ravens 34, Commanders 31 “It's the game of the day. Can the Ravens avoid their fourth-quarter foibles?"
Chris Simms	ravens

Ravens 34, Commanders 23 “I think this game is fun and goes back and forth for a while, but the Ravens show that clearly they’re the cream of the crop in this one.”
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
PUNDIT	PROJECTED WINNER	COMMENTARY
Albert Breer	ravens

Mitch Goldich	ravens

Gilberto Manzano	commanders

Connor Orr	ravens

John Pluym	ravens

Matt Verderame	ravens


