Ravens Announce New Lower Concourse Club Spaces at M&T Bank Stadium
Oct 08, 2024 at 10:01 AM
Baltimore Ravens

As part of their ongoing efforts to ensure M&T Bank Stadium remains a world-class NFL and entertainment venue, the Baltimore Ravens unveiled three new club memberships to be offered to PSL owners, beginning in 2025. These premium, lower concourse club spaces serve as the latest offerings from "The Next Evolution," a three-year enhancements project created to significantly enrich the gameday and year-round fan experience at M&T Bank Stadium. (Please click the links below for more information about each new club space.)

"These new hospitality spaces bring an opportunity for PSL owners to elevate their gameday experience in areas that weren't previously possible," Ravens senior vice president of ticket sales and operations Baker Koppelman stated. "These spaces are designed with easy access in mind and provide amenities that will enhance the full-day stadium experience – from pregame to postgame. For years, we've heard from many fans who expressed a strong desire for this type of experience, so we're incredibly excited about our ability to now deliver these elevated options."

The Trust, presented by M&T Bank (2025)

The Trust, located on the south side of M&T Bank Stadium, is an ultra-premium, lower concourse club that offers unique team access, including views of the Ravens' player tunnel at the 50-yard line and the post-game press conference room. The space encapsulates a lounge-like atmosphere with design elements reminiscent of early 1900s Baltimore banks.

With club membership, PSL owners may enter The Trust beginning two hours prior to kickoff and remain up to 90 minutes following the game's conclusion. This ultra-premium club space – with a maximum capacity of 400 – offers all-inclusive premium food and beverage options and access to private restrooms.

The Raven (2025)

Situated near the 50-yard line and underneath the lower level, The Raven is located on the north side of M&T Bank Stadium and provides an elevated club experience. The space will feature thematic touches related to the team's namesake, the poem "The Raven."

With convenient access from the main concourse, membership to The Raven will provide up to 350 guests with all-inclusive food and beverage options, as well as access to private restrooms, beginning two hours prior to kickoff and up to 90 minutes following the game's conclusion. Members will enjoy a social bar area with seating, screens and a climate-controlled setting throughout the game.

Champions Club (2025)

Located behind the west end zone, the Champions Club will be home to two featured bars celebrating each of the Ravens' Super Bowl victories. Club membership offers a premium bar experience with all-inclusive food and beverage options and access to private restrooms throughout the game.

Up to 500 guests can enjoy this premium space beginning two hours prior to kickoff and up to 90 minutes following the game's conclusion.

PSL Field Seats (Now Available)

In 2024, the Baltimore Ravens debuted 138 exclusive field seats flanking each side of the northwest and southwest corners. The two rows of plush seating offer fans an opportunity to enjoy Ravens games from one of the stadium's most intimate and unique vantage points.

Beginning in 2025, PSL owners with field seats on the north side of the stadium will also include membership to the newly-created club space, The Raven. Also beginning in 2025, PSL owners with field seats on the south side of the stadium will include club membership to The Trust.