Ravens' No. 3 Tight End Gets Highest Grade vs. Bengals
Oct 07, 2024 at 01:32 PM
Ryan Mink
Editorial Director

The Pro Football Focus (PFF) grades and snap counts are in from the Ravens' 41-38 overtime win in Cincinnati.

Here's a look at what stood out most:
The Ravens' highest-scoring player was No. 3 tight end Charlie Kolar (91.4), who had three catches for 64 yards, including a 55-yard rumble and 2-yard touchdown grab in traffic. Kolar also converted a key early fourth-and-1 with a tush push carry. "It's beautiful. They get so focused on Mark [Andrews] and Isaiah [Likely], they forget about the fat white guy running up the seam," Kolar joked after the game.
Andrews wasn't far behind Kolar. If setting the bar at a minimum of 25 snaps, Andrews would've been the Ravens' highest-graded player with an 83.1. After back-to-back games without a catch, Andrews had the third-most targets on the team (five) and hauled in four for 55 yards. He would've had a touchdown had a Lamar Jackson pass not forced him to go to the ground to make the catch. Andrews also continues to get the job done as both a run (81.5) and pass (78.5) blocker.
The Ravens got more big-time contributions from pass catchers buried a little deeper on the depth chart. Baltimore's No. 4 wide receiver, Tylan Wallace, had an 84.6 offensive grade after making two catches for 31 yards – both in the fourth quarter.
Wide receiver Zay Flowers got his highest marks of the season (80.6) with a team-leading seven catches for 111 yards. It's the second-highest grades he's received in a game in his young career.
Even though he was the clear MVP of the game and started chatter about winning a third MVP award, Lamar Jackson got only a 69.5 grade from PFF – his second-lowest grade of the season, only ahead of the Week 1 game in Kansas City. He was likely docked for his overtime fumble. His passing grade of 78.1 was his second-highest of the year, but still rather low for somebody who threw for 348 yards and four touchdowns.
Justice Hill had two more snaps than fellow running back Derrick Henry with the Ravens needing to throw the ball so much more after being staked to three 10-point deficits in the second half.
Isaiah Likely, who caught two touchdown passes including the insane stiff-arm one from Jackson, still played the highest percentage of snaps (71%) of the Ravens' tight ends. PFF gave him his lowest grade of the season, however.
Josh Jones had nine snaps at right tackle while rookie Roger Rosengarten was sidelined with an ankle injury. Ronnie Stanley also missed two snaps because he was throwing up after being hit in the stomach, but turned in another very strong showing with a 77.1 grade despite a tough matchup with Trey Hendrickson. Patrick Mekari also got a solid 64.9 grade in his second start at left guard, allowing just one pressure.
Roquan Smith was the only Ravens defender to play 100% of the snaps and he also had the highest grade (83.1) on the unit.
Nnamdi Madubuike got his highest PFF grade of the season at 82.1 after coming up with a clutch sack on the Bengals' final possession in regulation. Madubuike had five total pressures and a win rate of 31%.
Yannick Ngakoue had a good Ravens re-debut, as he got a pressure on his eight pass rush opportunities and finished with a 74.7 grade. He played 11 snaps.
Rookie cornerback Nate Wiggins saw a drop in snaps to 31% against the Bengals after playing 86% of the snaps last week against the Bills. PFF credited him with two catches allowed for 51 yards.
Marlon Humphrey had a game-changing interception late in the fourth quarter, but PFF credited him with giving up a catch on all five of his other targets for 89 yards and two touchdowns. Brandon Stephens was credited with giving up seven catches on eight targets for 61 yards.
The Ravens' best coverage grade on the entire defense was 66.7 from Kyle Hamilton. With a minimum of 25 snaps, safety Marcus Williams had the lowest coverage grade at 46.5.