Top Ravens Quotes Ahead of Commanders Game
Oct 11, 2024 at 02:14 PM
Matt Ryan
Editorial Intern

Head Coach John Harbaugh
On Baltimore's success against rookie quarterbacks:

"It's hard to compare rookie quarterbacks, but I can tell you that Jayden [Daniels] is playing at a high, high level. ... We have our hands full. It definitely starts with Jayden, but it's the whole offense, and we have to be on point."

On winning such a thrilling game against the Bengals:

"It definitely builds confidence in a lot of different ways in things that you're capable of doing. ... But you're not looking back at it – we can't afford to. ... Now we have to bounce back from that to get ready for another tough out-of-division game, but a tough physical team as well. It's been a tough schedule, but our guys are up for it."

S Kyle Hamilton
On the secondary's challenges:

"Most of our problems are nothing structural; it's just fundamental stuff. We have to tackle, we have to get off blocks, we have to communicate, and we've been saying this for five weeks now, so it's time to start actually doing it – not coming up here and just saying it."

On Lamar Jackson's stiff-arm touchdown pass:

"I feel like we're almost numb to it at this point. ... [But] I feel almost like he shouldn't even be in a position to where he has to do that where we need to win the game. I feel like the defense should have given him a cushion, especially how well the offense was playing. It's up to us to make that game not as close as it was."

On if he would rather tackle Jackson or Derrick Henry:

"I don't have a problem tackling either of them, to be honest. Probably, Lamar [Jackson], because I never get to touch him [in practice]. I just want to hit Lamar like one time, but that probably won't happen. Or if it does, I probably won't be here anymore."

QB Lamar Jackson
On Commanders quarterback Jayden Daniels:

"I've been catching glimpses of his play on social media and stuff like that, and he's going off. He's doing what we saw in college – what got him the Heisman [Trophy]. No doubt."

On the evolution of the quarterback position since he entered the league:

"I'm just glad that teams are just accepting that now, instead of just guys going through [a] hassle and trying to get mocked or whatever. But guys are proving it [by] just stepping in the league and doing what they are supposed to do, so that's helping it out even more."

On the woman in Cincinnati that came up to him at dinner:

"We were just sitting down. It was supposed to be private for us. … We were just eating. The guy who owned the restaurant just kept letting people. I don't know this lady. She came in, 'We're going to kick your [butt].' I'm like, I got mad. She's going to be the reason we're going to end up winning. I wonder how she felt after that. She probably seen it, one of her grandsons or something probably showed it to her. Just be a fan next time. Just let us play. Let the guys do the talking."

Defensive Coordinator Zach Orr
On the defense's play so far:

"It's like 'K-Ham' (Hamilton) said, 'Enough with the talking. It's time to go put it on film.' ... We've probably faced more adversity than we've liked, because we feel like a lot of it has been self-inflicted, but the guys have [kept] responding the right way. So, I'm fired up. That's what keeps me going, honestly – [that] we've got the right people to go out here and go do the job."

On if Daniels looks like a rookie with only five career starts:

"No, I can't, honestly, man. [Jayden Daniels] does a great job of having his poise. He looks really comfortable out there, [and] he's continuing to get better every week. ... We don't look at him as a rookie; we look at what we see on film, and what we see on film is one of the top quarterbacks in the league. So, we know that we have a big challenge in front of us, and we've been preparing that way."

Special Teams Coordinator Chris Horton
On Justin Tucker's clutch kicks:

"I've said it all year, we have all the faith in the world in Justin [Tucker]. ... That's the guy that we know. That's the Justin that, every time he goes out there that's who he wants to be, and sometimes it doesn't happen. There's no need to get down on the guy. There's no need to say, 'Well can he still do it, [and] can he still do this?' Hell yes, he can still do it, and he proved that the other day."

TE Mark Andrews
On the Daniels and Jackson comparisons:

"It's different. Lamar [Jackson] is my guy and forever will be. To me, he's the GOAT' in my eyes. I don't look at anybody else."