What the Bengals Said After Overtime Loss to Ravens
Oct 07, 2024 at 11:04 AM
Matt Ryan
Editorial Intern

Head Coach Zac Taylor
On losing, 41-38, in overtime:

"I'm sick to my stomach for our guys in there. They fought. I'm proud of them, but we've got to find a way to win. We can't keep coming up one play short, and that's really what the game came down to. There was a lot that I admired about how our team fought. That was a good game against a great team."

On the defenses biggest issues:

"They made some plays in the passing game. I mean, you guys watched the same game I did. (Lamar Jackson) runs around back there 20 yards deep and finds some explosives — how many guys do that?"

On the Bengals' last possession in regulation:

"(The sack) is the big one. That's the big one. You know, that put us in second-and-17 right out the gate and I think they just got us with the game up front. That changes you a little bit."

On Lamar Jackson extending plays:

"When you play (Lamar Jackson), you know that. He's strong, he's athletic, he's tough to bring down. That's just part of it. Our guys have played him plenty."

QB Joe Burrow
On Marlon Humphrey's interception:

"It was man-to-man. I had Ja'Marr on a slant and took a shot. He (Marlon Humphrey) made a really good play. I'm not sure I would have made any other decision than that. Credit to him. ... Marlon is a great player. We made plays, they made plays. That's a credit to him. He's a smart, savvy player who knows what we're trying to do in that situation. He played it perfect."

On the Bengals' showing so far:

"We're not a championship level team right now. We're not. I like to think that we'll come back and improve throughout the season to get to that point, but right now we're not, and we have to get better."

On the Cincinnati offense not being aggressive in overtime:

"That defense is really good and makes negative plays happen all the time. So, if you drop back and get sacked or sacked/fumbled, they have a really good rush. ... We had a shot to win it, and we didn't take advantage of it."

On the back-and-forth game:

"Those guys [on defense] make it really tough. They're a tough, physical, good rush. They understand what they're doing in the secondary. They're matching coverages. So, at the end of the day, we made plays, but they made several plays as well."

WR Tee Higgins
On the Cincinnati's offensive success:

"It was just winning a lot of our one-on-one coverages. We knew that was going to be big for this game. We knew that was our mentality, to come in and win those one-on-ones. It just wasn't enough."

On having success against the Ravens:

"I don't know, man. We just get matchups that we wanted and were able to make plays."

On the overtime play calling:

"Personally, I think we should've gone a little more aggressive on the first or second down, just to try and get Evan in better field goal range. He'll make those from that deep, I'm not putting it on him at all. It's a team effort, we lost as a team. But we could've done a better job of putting him in field goal range to make it an easier kick."

WR Ja'Marr Chase
On the Bengals starting 1-4:

"To start with, I think we should have won these games. I'll start there."

On if he was surprised by the 70-yard touchdown:

"No. We got in the right formation for it and got the right coverage."

On the three runs in overtime:

"I felt like we should've tried at least one play to give it to one of our playmakers, try to get a first down, cause we've been doing it the whole game,"

P Ryan Rehkow
On his hold on the potential game-winning field goal:

"That's one of those things where usually when I'm on the field I feel really calm, and that circumstance wasn't any different. I really do feel like (I felt) the adrenaline maybe too much, (was) just trying to get it down too quick."

K Evan McPherson
On Rehkow's hold:

"He has done a really good job holding, and I have full trust in him. And, whether he drops it or if it's perfect, I think that I should make every kick. None of that should be put on Ryan, or Cal, or anything. I think if anything, I didn't put the ball through the uprights. I think it always has to fall on me."

CB Cam Taylor-Britt
On slowing Derrick Henry until that final run:

"That was the main thing. To stop the run — (they were the) the No. 1 rushing offense in the league. We held those guys to some numbers that they aren't used to having, but that last one got out and that ended the game."