What the Commanders Said After Falling to Ravens
Oct 14, 2024 at 10:50 AM
Matt Ryan
Editorial Intern

Head Coach Dan Quinn
On defending Baltimore's run game:

"Earlier in the game, we played the run better. As the game wore down, I thought we wore down some, including into the four minutes at the end to go get a stop. In the first half, I think they ended up with maybe 51 [yards] somewhere in that space, which I would have said would probably be somewhere you would have thought. Then, in the second half, just too many shots at it."

On the Ravens showing up in clutch spots:

"I have a lot of respect for them because they played to their identity, played tough. I told John [Harbaugh] that after the game, 'That was a quintessential finish by you and your guys to close it out.' Both teams, I thought, have tough identities."

On trying to answer the Ravens' strengths:

"At the half we were right in where we were supposed to be. I don't like how we performed in the second half. I don't love how we performed on third down. I knew they were going to be really good in the run game. I didn't think we would miss on some of them like we did. I wouldn't say we played to their strengths, but we knew they were strong in that spot, and we would have to throw it more than we normally would do."

QB Jayden Daniels
On the most challenging part of the game:

"We just have to finish some opportunities. It's a great defense we were able to go up against and have a challenge against today, but at the end of the day, it's on us. We have to go out there as a group. They got some stops, and that's what they pride themselves on doing."

On what he learned Sunday:

"You're going to play these kinds of games [against] Super Bowl-contending team. Obviously, they were in the AFC Championship game last year. They have great players all around the field, but it's very promising that we were able to be in this type of game."

On facing Lamar Jackson:

"[Lamar Jackson's] a great player, man. He's a two-time MVP for a reason. He had a great game, but you know there's no 'you' out there. You go out there, and obviously, you keep that in the back of your head like, 'Man, we got to score, because they have a quarterback on the other side who can put up points too.'"

On if this Ravens defense is the best he's faced in the NFL:

"To this point, for sure. Honestly, what they do, how they operate, how they try to punch you in the mouth, I think we responded well to that."

On the Ravens trying to keep him in the pocket:

"They tried to eliminate explosive plays and keep me within the pocket and stuff like that. [They tried to] keep eyes on me; that's kind of how they were playing. To that point, kudos to them. They pulled off the win."

LB Dante Fowler Jr.
On how the Commanders prepared for Jackson:

"It's too much stuff to even talk about how much we practiced. We did do a lot of things, emphasized a lot of things on Lamar [Jackson] and the run game, and just trying to get out there and do it today."

On being prepared to tackle Derrick Henry:

"You've got to do what you've got to do. He's an elusive and electric player. So, when you get him, you've got to hold on tight."

WR Terry McLaurin
On Sunday's game:

"You have to give credit to them; that is why they are a championship level team. They made the plays to win the game, and they did a good job staying on the field. They did a good job in getting us off the field, so we have a lot to learn from going forward. We came in here and competed at a high level, but other than that, no moral victories."

CB Mike Sainristil
On Baltimore's offense:

"I believe everything that we prepared for, they came out and did. But, you know, they are a great team as well [and] tough to beat at home. Super strong brotherhood over there. So, we knew really that the game would come down to who could limit the mistakes and whose defense could go out there and get the stops when needed. Other than that, like I said, they are a good football team."

LB Bobby Wagner
On if Baltimore's offense did anything unexpected:

"They had a couple little wrinkles, but nothing too crazy. They got 8 [Lamar Jackson] and 22 [Derrick Henry], and you've got to figure out a way to stop them. Regardless of what they put in, they are going to try to get them the ball."