Who's Playing, Who's Not vs. Commanders
Oct 13, 2024 at 04:55 AM
Ryan Mink
Editorial Director

Ravens cornerback Marlon Humphrey (ankle) is questionable heading into Sunday's game against the Washington Commanders.

Humphrey didn't practice Wednesday and was limited Thursday and Friday.

If he can't play against the Commanders, that would put more strain on a secondary that's looking to bounce back after a rough game in Cincinnati that dropped it back down to No. 31 in the league.

Wide receiver Rashod Bateman (groin), however, is ready to play after practicing fully Friday. He carries no injury designation.

Ravens Rule Out Two Key Defenders
The Ravens ruled out defensive lineman Broderick Washington (knee) and linebacker Malik Harrison (groin) after neither practiced all week.

Washington has played 39% of the Ravens' defensive snaps this season and made four tackles through the first five games. Baltimore could roll with four defensive linemen (Nnamdi Madubuike, Michael Pierce, Travis Jones and Brent Urban) or activate veteran Chris Wormley from the practice squad.

Harrison has played 16% of the snaps and made 10 tackles. The Ravens have depth at inside linebacker with Chris Board and Josh Ross behind Roquan Smith and Trenton Simpson.

Baltimore also ruled out cornerback Arthur Maulet for a second game after he tweaked his hamstring after being designated for return from injured reserve.

Ravens Have Question Marks on Offensive Line
Left tackle Ronnie Stanley (toe) is questionable to play after being limited on Thursday and Friday's practices. Rookie right tackle Roger Rosengarten (ankle/hand) returned to full practice participation Friday and will play.

Left guard Andrew Vorhees (ankle) practiced fully all week and carries no injury designation, which means he's healthy enough to play, However, the question remains whether he will reclaim his starting left guard spot or whether Baltimore keeps rolling with Rosengarten at right tackle and Patrick Mekari at left guard.

Reserve guard Sala Aumavae-Laulu (back) returned to practice Friday but is questionable.

Commanders' Leading Running Back Ruled Out
Leading running back Brian Robinson Jr. (knee) was ruled out Saturday after not practicing all week. Robinson ranks 14th in the league with 325 rushing yards.

The Commanders will get back veteran running back Austin Ekeler (heel), who was a full participant this week.